Principal Word Vectors refer to a set of word vectors (word embeddings) that are built through performing a principal component analysis on a transformed contextual matrix (also known as co-occurrence matrix).
The directory 'cwvec' (contextual word vectors) contains codes to construct a contextual matrix. 
Change your directory to 'cwvec' and type make

cd cwvec
make

You should have two executable files in the directory cwvec/build
  * cwvec: to build a contextual matrix
  * print_overflow: to display overflow files created during the construction of a contextual matrix

The ELF file cwvec can process two types of corpus:
  * raw corpus in which each line is a tokenised sentence
  * annotated corpus in which each line is a word with features. The words of a sentence are placed in adjacent lines, and an empty line is between sentences. 
  
  An example of a raw corpus is:
  thats a pretty picture .
  
  Each line of an annotated corpus should be in the following format:
  id<TAB>word_form<TAB>contexts_ids<TAB>contextual_features

'id' is an integer stating the position of a word in a sentence. It starts at 1
'word_form' is a word form (usually normalised). We refer to this as the current word
'contexts_ids' is a comma-separated list of integers referring to the ids of the contexts of the current word. Use 0 for the root of a dependency context
'contextual_features' is a comma-separated list of categorical features associated with the current word. Note that the symbol ',' is a reserved character used as a split character 

An example of an annotated corpus is: 
1       thats   4       that,NOUN,NNS,nsubj
2       a       4       a,DET,DT,det
3       pretty  4       pretty,ADJ,JJ,amod
4       picture 0       picture,NOUN,NN,root
5       .       4       .,PUNCT,.,punct

Note that the delimiter between the columns should be TAB.

cwvec has the foloowing options:

$ ./build/cwvec --help
options --input <file.txt>
use the following options
    --corpus-type   'raw' corpus or 'annotated' corpus (default raw)
    --input     -i  path to input file
    --output    -o  path to output file (default input.bin or input.txt)
    --vocab        path to vocabulary file (default input.vcb)
    --feature      path to feature file (default input.feat)
    --normalize -n word normalization (all letters are converted to lowecase format and all sequences of digits are replaced with <num>
    --context-type -c the context type, bow (bag-of-word), pow (position-of-word), neighbourhood, or indexed (default bow)
    --load-vocab        load words from vocab file
    --load-features     load features from feature file
    --output-format -f 'bin' or 'txt' output (default bin)
    --max-memory    -m  the amount of memory (in gigabyte) used for fast matrix access. (default 1.0)
    --overflow-file      overflow file prefix (default overflow)
    --min-vcount         minimum word frequency. Words with frequency smaller than min-vcount are assumed as unknown word (default 1)
    --max-vocab          maximum number of voabulary plus one used for unknown words. Set 0 for infinity. (default 0)
    --min-fcount         minimum feature frequency. Feature with frequency smaller than min-fcount are assumed as unknown feature (default 1).
    --max-feature        maximum number of features plus one used for unknown feature. Set 0 for infinity. (default 0)
    --window     -w      window size (default -1)
    --symmetric          symmetric window of size window_size)
    --print              print cooccurrence matrix on standard output
    --verbose    -v      enable verbose
    --help       -h      print this message
  
  Once a contextual matrix (the output of cwvec) is built, the principal word vectors are generated by performing a PCA on that. This can be done by the codes available at the pwvec directory. There are two implmentations, one is a python code and the other an octave code. If you are a python user import princ_wvec and contsruct an object based on the class PrincipalWordVectors. Set the cooc_file parameter to the path of the contextual matrix built by cwvec. 
  
